---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: "Miscellaneous Reflections"
author:
  display_name: 小飞熊
  login: fbbear
  email: fbbear@sina.com
  url: 'https://lfbear.com'
author_login: fbbear
author_email: fbbear@sina.com
author_url: 'https://lfbear.com'
wordpress_id: 408
wordpress_url: 'https://lfbear.com/?p=408'
date: '2010-08-12 11:53:00 +0800'
date_gmt: '2010-08-12 03:53:00 +0800'
categories:
  - 自言自语
tags: []
comments:
  - id: 317
    author: C瓜哥
    author_email: tangcraig@gmail.com
    author_url: 'http://www.cguage.com'
    date: '2010-08-25 18:28:21 +0800'
    date_gmt: '2010-08-25 10:28:21 +0800'
    content: 小飞兄博客更新速度能不能快点？你也是做程序员这一行的，可以写的应该很多很多啊
abbrlink: 15633
lang: en
---
I've always felt that as a rational human being, you should at least have a scale in your heart to weigh things when you encounter them. Even if there's no clear right or wrong, one should at least have a modicum of self-awareness. All I can say is that nowadays, shameless people are indeed becoming more and more common.

<!--more-->

When commerce meets ethics, many things simply cease to make sense. There is an old saying I've come to understand deeply: "No business without deceit; the cunning merchant reigns." Commerce is forever driven by raw interest. Ever since the internet emerged, public opinion has inevitably been distorted by a select few. Because of this, I have now formed a habit: whenever I read any news report, I always look at it with reverse skepticism first. Everything could very well be fake.

Take "Lao Guo" (Guo Degang) recently getting "harmonized" (censored) as an example. Public figures are often a vulnerable group and the target of all criticism in the face of public opinion—which largely stems from a general resentment towards the wealthy. When I saw the news about Guo's disciple hitting a reporter, my very first instinct was that this story was untruthful. Journalists possess absolute control over discourse, and besides, not that many reporters in China have much professional integrity. (If you happen to be one of those rare, genuinely good journalists, you have my heartfelt gratitude and respect for your dedication to the profession.) It's just like being on a stage: whoever holds the microphone always has the final say. What I find most pathetic is how BTV (Beijing Television) has stooped to copying paparazzi tactics. It's disappointing, as I usually quite enjoy BTV's programs. But whatever, there are too many hidden agendas here, so it's best not to say too much.

Then again, in B2C transactions, consumers always feel like the vulnerable party or even the victims. We expect businesses to act with absolute integrity and serve as models of ethics, while customers should naturally benefit from the deal. The smaller the issue, the more we want to split hairs over it. What people fail to realize is that they will always be "victims" in one way or another. It's just a matter of whether they are being "slapped in the face" or "stabbed in the back." Those who get slapped will, of course, fight back and cry foul. But those who get stabbed in the back will never have a voice to speak out. Therefore, self-awareness is precious; we must know our limits. When it comes to fundamental principles, by all means, stand up for yourself. But when it's just a matter of financial profit or loss, it's better to tread carefully and act with discretion.
